By image processing,
we normally mean, still images.
And the one that most people
are familiar with is JPEG.
And it's developed by
Joint Photographic Experts Group,
at ISO and IEC, those
are the international standards for this.
There is a good review on the Wiki here.
I just want to map the JPEG algorithms
in the general scheme that we
have been working on so far.
[COUGH] So, before we jump into JPEG,
I would like to talk briefly
about the color representation.
Most camera sensors,
they detect R, G, and B.
Red, green, and blue.
And we need eight bits per pixel.
Now, there are new sensors that have 10
and 12 bits for very high dynamic range.
It's very advantageous to work
in a different representation
than in the RGB space.
And this representation is called YUV.
Y stands for luminance.
U and V are the chrominans.
This is also called CR and CB, YCR, YCB.
You can go from RGB to YUV space,
back and forth, and
the only loss is the rounding off errors.
The brightness is represented by Y,
the luminance component.
It has two main advantages.
One is you get comparability
with black and white TV.
We basically process Y,
U and V separately, and
colored TVs,
used the additional chrominance data.
Black and
whites just used the dominance data.
The second advantage is, human perception.
We are very sensitive to brightness.
So this gives us an opportunity to
work on the luma a lot more carefully,
and in fact the U and
V can also be down-sampled with very,
very little loss in
the visual representation..
The YUV444 is the unsampled domain,
YUV422,
the U and V,
are down-sampled by a factor of 2.
So, this gives us right off
the bat about 30% data savings.
There is also YUV420 that gives
about 50% data reduction.
So, the picture on
the left that you see has,
the color picture followed by the Y,
C, U, and V.
And the Y component always has this
prime that is gamma corrected luminance,
that's called a luma, but
even if we dropped the prime,
it still is understood that it
is the luma representation.
The table here gives some values and
correlation between the YUV values and
the RGB values.
I put in a very nice Wiki link that
explains this in very nice detail.
So in JPEG,
what we normally do is
we take the image and
break it into eight by
eight blocks of pixels, and
in each eight by eight block we
do discrete cosine transport.
That's the time frequency decomposition
that we've talked about here.
It's just a spatial to
frequency decomposition.
So visually, the picture on the left is
what the DCT basis
functions would look like.
The cell in the top-left corner is just
the DCT component, and the cell on
the right-hand bottom component is
the very high frequency component,
including the horizontal frequency
terms and the vertical frequency terms.
And the picture on the right-hand side
is once we do the DCT transform for
each of the blocks, we scan all
the DCT terms to make a linear vector.
And when we do this, there's lots
of terms that are typically zero,
so we look at only the components
that have significant value,
and record only them,
using Huffman coding.
So here is the block diagram of
the complete JPEG encoder and decoder.
You can see the similarity between
this and the generic block diagram
that we have been looking at before with
a lot of the optional components removed.
After the entropy coding, as I said,
there are lots of terms that
are usually zero for
most of the natural images.
So we use what is called
run-length encoding, RLE,
to represent a large sequence of zeros.
So, other than that, we have
basically looked at all the blocks on
the encoder and the decoder.
Just like what we did with the Miracle 13
DV demo, it is very instructive to see
the noise that we are introducing during
the encoding and reconstruction process.
Depending on the encoder settings, we can
get different reconstruction quality.
And in this particular one, the image
on the right-hand side is the one,
the delta, the difference with
a quality setting setting of about 50.
This, for most images, roughly gives
about 15 to 1 compression ratio and
you can see the kind of
distortion that we introduce.
But when you put it on top of
the real image, most of the times,
they are not very objectionable.
This is the psycho-visual
aspects of human perception.